---
layout: post
title: "Jonathan Tran, Spring Break"
date: 2020-04-02
---
This break, I have been trying to stay focused on my goals to improve myself.

Exercise wise, I have been trying to walk a few miles every day and also doing
stretches and zumba exercies. I hope that this can build up into a routine
so that I can stay healthier and more energized every day.

I have also been keeping up with quiz bowl. If you know me, you probably
know that quiz bowl is  big part of my life. Well, I have exactly one year left before I finish
undergraduate schooling, so I hope I can make a large impact at what is likely
my last ICT tournament. In order to do this, I have decided to really learn the 
canon of nationals. Previously, I think I deceived myself at how well I knew
the canon in history. It looks like I'll have to face the truth.

My plan is to study like in high school. I'll rely on packets to tell me what to study.
My hunch is that everything ever worth studying or knowing has come up already.
So I'll read a lot of packets in the first place. I hope to come to a point where I know
every question and every clue in a tossup and bonus by heart by next year. 

Further, I want to make sure I can get every clue. So i will mine tossups and bonuses.
Each clue is a gateway to learning more material. I'll work clue by clue in each 
tossup or bonus, and research that clue, making a notecard about it. In this way,
I can build up a stronger network of ideas so that my memory can self strengthen itself.

Along the way, I will also supplement my knowledge by reading up whole wikipedia articles on
clues form tossups and bonuses. And I will focus specifically on bonuses, looking up
bonuses that I don't know and reinforcing that area by looking up adjacent bonuses.

Finally, I'll keep writing tossups to cement my knowledge, which is quite brittle right now. 

To enjoy some more of quiz bowl, I am going to keep reading literature. I just read the Dwarf by Par Langkvist
and he really gets into the mind of the Dwarf, in such a lucid way. I've also read a good bit of Sherlock Holmes,
parts of a Jack London anthology, including for the first time White Fang, some Edgar Allan Poe stories like the Goldbug
and I'm slogging through Pride and Prejudice, though I hope its gets better.

As a whole, I hope to do much better at my next ICT. While its great to learn new clues, for me, I also 
thrive on the competitive side of quiz bowl. I would love to lead my team to a top 15 finish. 

On the computer science side of things, I am working on the email deletion project. And I am
still an intern at TCAt so there's lots of things to do. Finally, I have a secret project related to quiz bowl.
It should use what I learned in 4300 this semester to sort clues by difficulty and filter clues. Eventually,
I want to add some NLP to this project to make it useable as a study method, to generate clues in grammatical
English and also to possibly make cohesive computer written tossups. 


